# Rijndael
Simple cryptography tool utilising AES for encrypting/decrypting files.

---
## Purpose
This app provides core functionality of AES cryptography, especially:
- encrypting files
- decrypting files

## Important notices
1. This app **does not (yet) realize PBKDF2-HMAC KDF logic** - i.e., the AES ciphering in this app utilize key **without** random salt. This is enough for typical tasks, but not yet *fully* followed modern standards of encrypting. Use *big* (10+ symbols) and *well-randomized* password for encrypting important information!
2. **WARNING!!!** You need clearly understand that this is **military grade** encrypting system. I.e., if you encrypt your data and forget (or lost) the password, **NO ONE** will be able to decrypt your information! Typical brute-force time for deciphering AES-256 exceeds time of heat death of Universe.

## User interface
User interface of the app allows to set up source, destination and parameters of encrypting/decrypting, initialize encryption/decryption process, and receive feedback from the app.

## UI elements
- **Source file** field - displays and allows to input path to source file (file with data you want to *process*). You can type the path to file by yourself or select it via GUI dialogue through *"Browse"* button near the end of the field.
- **Destination file** field - displays and allows to input path to destination file (file where *processed* data will be saved). You can type the path to file by yourself or select it via GUI dialogue through *"Browse"* button near the end of the field.
- **Password** field - allows to input your password (any symbols accepted).
- **AES standard** combo box - displays selected AES standard and allows to select other available (*AES-128*, *AES-192* or *AES-256*).
- **Encrypt** button - initializes encrytion process.
*Open data from your source file will be encrypted and saved as AES-ciphered data in destination file*.
- **Decrypt** button - initializes decrytion process.
*Encrypted data from your source file will be decrypted and saved as open data in destination file*.
- **Status** string - displays current application status.
- **Help** link - opens your default web browser and deliver you to the project page (this one you are reading now).

*Notice: system does not touch any info in source file (read-only access), and does not allow to overwrite destination file.*

---
## Source code
Source code of this app available on [GitHub repository](https://github.com/DaniilGalahov/Rijndael-AESLib).

The repository includes:
- Simple C#-based cryptography tool **Rijndael**, utilising AES for encrypting/decrypting files.
- C++ implementation of [Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard), as it described in [NIST.FIPS.197-upd1](/Documentation/NIST.FIPS.197-upd1.pdf)
- C++ implementation of [Secure Hash Standard (SHS) algorithm SHA-256](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2), as it described in [NIST.FIPS.180-4](/Documentation/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf)
- C++/CLI interface library for usage C++ AES implementation in C#-based apps
- C ABI .dll for usage C++ AES implementation with any managed language (Java, Python, TypeScript, anything).
- Detailed documentation and examples of usage.

---
## Questions
Feel free to ask me through PM if you have any questions or offers.

## Legal notice
This software is distributing under MIT/BSD-like license. Full terms are available in the [License](/License.md) file.

Logo image of Rijndael AESLib and an icon of Rijndael application was generated by ChatGPT 5.

---
## Support & donations
If you like this software, please, support me with donations. This will allow me to spend more time on improvement of my projects. Any help will count.

**VISA card (Halyk bank, Worldwide):** 4003 0351 5709 6871

**МИР card (T-bank, Russia only):** 2200 7021 5287 4603

**Recepient:** Daniil Galakhov